# Auto-Mation-Assist 12/24/2022  AGD-my-Alaska-Gold-Detector-Proj


I have done some preliminary tests with the Detech 8" GPX DD coil. These tests
utilized test equipment in order to be able to see what is going on inside the
electronics and how changing coils affect the waveforms and signal levels.

The measured inductance of the Detech TX coil was 286uh which is about 17uh less
than the CoilTek wound elite coils used during circuit development.
I used two CoilTek 9 inch coils and one 14 inch coil and all had 303 uh inductance.

Without making changes to the TX coil load resistor values of 651.8 ohms for the CoilTek
coils the Detech coil show significant ringing and required the load resistor on the TX
side to be reduced to 491.4 ohms. This presents a problem due the in reduction of inductance
to 286uh versus 303uh for the CoilTek coils which all measure the same value.

Thus in order to maximize performance of the Detech coil would require a way to switch
the resistance of the TX coil load so that the decay is properly damped.

At longer TX pulse widths the Detech RX coil with its measured 388.5uh inductance of
the RX coil will overload the to receive side and require a the addition of a RX load
resistor and also perhaps a switch to reduce preamp gain. I think it would be better
to develop my own DD coil that has the same inductance as the CoilTek coils and also
reduce the number of turns in the RX coil to lower its inductance. I do not know
if the Detech RX coil has a built in load resistor and its value but I had to install
a 127 ohm resistor across the Detech RX coil to stop overloads at greater pulse widths.

From information I was able to find for the GPX I see that my circuit design may use a
substantialy higher TX pulse voltage than the GPS and that this increases the problem
with a high turns ratio of the Detech RX coil. There is no need to have a high turns
ratio between the TX and RX coils with the preamp in the AGD detectors circuit design
and thus a better match can likely be made with custom DD coils or coils that more
closely match the inductance of the CoilTek coils mentioned.

I made the resistance changes to run test of the Detech 8 inch DD coil versus the
CoilTek 9 elite 9 inch mono coils and for my tests and in my environment indicated
that Detech coil did not do as well as my CoilTek 9 inch coils.  A good
part for that is likely because inductances between the Detech and CoilTek coils
vary way to much to be a excellent plug and play match.

Testing the Detech coil was worthwile since it clearly shows that switching coils
can make problems that only become visible when electronic test equipment is used
to analyze what is actually going on inside of a metal detector.







